Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to focus on creating an API that we can call now that we already have a
basic flask application running.
Let's combine it with the prediction function that we created earlier.
We'll go ahead and copy and paste that prediction function and set it up along with the flask application
with another view.
That way we can send a chase on request.
In this case we'll use postmen to do it and then we'll get a answer or prediction back from our function.
Let's go ahead and get started.
I'm gonna open up the same file we're working with last time okay.
Here's the my example dot pi file we're working with last time we're going to do is I'm going to copy
and paste my return prediction function from our notebook that we worked on in the very beginning of
this series of lectures.
So go ahead and at the very top or we're going to do is we're first going to add in the imports necessary
to run our model.
And so those are important pi as MP and then from tensor flow that carries that model's import Load
model and then we'll also need to import job lip to actually import the flower model as well as the
flower scaler.
So we'll go ahead and do after that is the following we'll say copy and paste the return prediction
function.
So this is the exact prediction function we created in the very beginning of this lecture series and
all it does just takes in a model a scalar in a sample J some file and then now analyses it scales it
and then predicts the class.
So we'll go ahead and add that in and then we're going to do is we'll go ahead and create our flask
application.
After that we have our home page rule and then we're going to create a new route.
But before we create that new route what we need to make sure to do is load the model and the scalar.
So we'll say our flower model is equal to load model and you'll pass in the entire file path to the
DOT H5 file in my case this example file is located in the same folder as our H5 file.
So I'll just type in final Iris model dot H5 please keep in mind if this my example that pi file is
located somewhere else on your computer you'll need to provide the full file path and then we'll say
flower scalar is equal to job lib dot load and then Iris scalar dot pickle file okay.
Essentially the same lines of code that we set up at the very bottom of our notebook.
So we loaded up our model load it up scalar next.
It's time to actually create a routing view that would accept that API Jason request and return back
an answer.
So we're gonna say at app that route and in this case let's go ahead and give this to route of forward
slash API forward slash flower and what we need to do is say methods is equal to list and then all caps
post essentially saying that this particular routing page for a web application accepts post requests
and then will define this function as something like flower prediction and then we take the content
and say that's equal to request dot Jason.
So what does that actually mean.
Essentially what's going to happen is when we actually send something to this page it's going to be
in a request form and then we'll grab the Jason from it in order to use this.
We need to do is scroll back up here and say from flask import not just flask anymore but now we also
need to add in that request.
So that's where a request is coming from.
And then later on we're also going to do is use Jason ify to actually return the results.
So say Jason ify and these are all already built into flasks so you just import flask requests.
And Jason ify essentially using requests to actually accept the.
Jason requests data and then using Jason ify to send the back out.
So we come back down here.
We'll go ahead and take the requests.
Grab the Jason from it.
And that's essentially the content itself.
And that content is what we pass in to our return prediction function.
So I will say results is equal to return prediction where my model is equal to the flower model that
I just created or loaded up the flower scalar is the scalar and then the sample Jason is the content
after that we will simply say go ahead and return not just the results but since I want to return this
as Jason.
I'll say Jason ify the results recalled the results essentially just a single string.
OK so that's all you should have to do.
Go ahead and save our changes.
Make sure you say the changes of the ways you won't see anything then open up your Anaconda prompt that
your command line.
And now what we're going to do is we'll say python and we'll run my example dot pi.
Go ahead and hit enter and you should see actually a little bit possibly of tensor flow uploading since
we are importing it at the very beginning of the top pile but eventually after uploads this we should
notice here is that it says that the server is running.
So then go ahead and open up your browser and upon opening the browser you should see when you go to
1 2 7 0 0 1 5 thousand you'll see flask app is running.
So this confirms that the home page routing is running well you need to do now is you need to download
postman.
So let me show you how to do that for posting what you're going to be doing is going to Google dot com
and just say postman download hit enter and you should see right at the top download the postman app
which is that postman dot com click on that link and postman is available for Windows and Mac OS and
Linux so make sure you're choosing the correct download whether it's 32 bit or 64 bit for windows or
if you're a Mac OS or Linux download the correct versions there.
Essentially what it is it's this nice graphical user interface for sending out Jason requests which
is why we're going to be using it here later on we'll also show you how to run this programmatically
go ahead and download and install postman and then open it up on your computer.
I'm going to forward to downloading it and opening it since I already have postman installed.
All right.
Upon launching postman it may ask you to register but you should see at the bottom that you can skip
the registration and just use postman itself.
Then we're here at the essentially main home page of postman where we're going to do is create a new
request with postman to send Jason to our running web application as an API.
So go ahead and click on new here and then we're going to do is send a request.
So it will send a basic request here.
You can go ahead and give this request the name such as flower prediction and then you can give it a
request description essentially pass flower measurements get back.
Flower class prediction.
OK so we already have the crest name.
You already have the past five prediction.
Then we just need to select a collection to save this too.
Or you can create a new collection to create a new collection called this prediction models or whatever
you want.
Select that and then say saved prediction models.
OK so now you have this graphical interface for actually sending requests.
First thing want to do is select the correct request.
You are not getting data.
We are posting data to the web application.
So this is a post request and then we need to enter the request.
You are all recall that if you go to your command prompt or this is all running right now everything
is running on one to seven point zero point zero point one cone five thousand.
So that's essentially a local connection.
And then if you take a look at your sublime code recall that this actual view or this routing for the
prediction runs at Forward slash API forward slash flower and it accepts post methods.
So that means what we're going to do here is what we're entering the request you are all we're going
to say HDP colon forward slash forward slash and then one two seven point zero point zero point one
colon five thousand and then forward slash API forward slash flower.
So this first half comes from the actual web application at the command line.
The second half comes from the actual routing decorator in the flask function.
Okay.
So next thing we need to do is select what we're actually going to send.
We'll click on body here and we're going to then select raw and then from raw select Jason.
Okay.
Now it's time to actually send the Jason code in the same format that's expected so that's going to
look something like this will say curly braces.
And then with double quotes we say simple underscore length and then we'll say here colon five point
one comma.
Let's do another feature here.
Next one is simple with colon let's say three point five Comma next one here will be pedal length colon
one point four comma and then finally pedal with and we'll give it the example of zero point two and
then another set of curly braces to finish this off.
Okay once that's done you'll go ahead and send this.
So then say send and you should make sure that your application is running.
Once you send this request and your application is running and you don't have any typos in your application
eventually you should see a status 200.
OK.
That's an h t mental status code and we see back here the actual returns prediction as Jason and it's
so Tosa.
OK.
So this is now how you would use your flex flask web application along for your model as an API request
using something like postmen and if you're already familiar with different ways of sending API requests
through a post method you can now see how you could send this Jason code through whatever your preferred
method is.
But postman happens to be one of the easiest for testing.
And so what we did right now is we combine our tensor flow model with a flask web application to create
an API that can be requested through Jason.
Coming up next we're going to do is we're going to show you how you could send this request using basic
Python code as well.
In case you wanted to do this programmatically I'll see you at the next lecture.